---
title: 'A first post.'
date: 2022-04-03
permalink: /posts/2022/04/first/
tags:
  - meta
---

Why a blog, and what I plan on writing.

### Motivation  
------
I've been toying with the idea of a research/academic blog since undergrad. After reading several excellent posts by Gregory Gunderson -- including [his own motivation](https://gregorygundersen.com/blog/2020/01/12/why-research-blog/) for starting and maintaining his research blog -- I decided I might as well give it a go myself. 

First, despite my undergraduate background in mathematics, I find myself a better verbal or linguistic thinker; in my studies, I often found myself translating abstract concepts to annotated diagrams and written explanations. I do this in my notes anyways, so I may as well add them to this blog.

Second, as Gregory noted, I've discovered a frustrating (and somewhat worrying) tendency for my understanding of machine learning and mathematics to be more surface-level than I'd like to believe. It is said that you do not understand a concept if you cannot teach it. While these blog posts may not guarantee understanding of linear algebra or machine learning theory or whatnot, it at least gets me a little closer to it.

Third, in these past six months, I realize more than ever that hard progress in research is not necessarily guaranteed. Ideas and hypotheses don't always pan out, and experiments fail or produce disappointing results. But a blog post is concrete proof of a softer progress in my own knowledge and understanding.

Fourth, I worry that I am losing my love for language in its purest form. For the first two decades of my life, I read and wrote voraciously, and there was a music in prose that I sought to employ in all of my writings. I hope I can somehow reclaim it.

Finally, I recognize I am in a particularly vulnerable stage between entering research and reaching research maturity. I've ventured past the well-mapped territories of online tutorials or textbook knowledges; now I find myself in a sort of no man's land, where my own ill-formed vision and intuition seem to indicate no end in sight. I'm sure many others have documented similar experiences, but these are usually written after having surmounted them. I hope if you are in a similar place of your research career, you will find comfort that, in this moment, you are not alone in your own worries or insecurities. 

### Writing Plans  
------
I plan to write mostly about interesting papers I've come across and explanation of core mathematical concepts for ML. I'll tag these as #papers and #math, respectively. I might throw in some posts related to my hobbies.
