---
title: 'Podcast Patter'
date: 2022-04-04
permalink: /posts/22/04/podcasts/
tags:
  - hobbies
---

In one ear, out the other.

## Podcast Summaries  

I started listening to podcasts thanks to the advice of some friends in the lab, but I often find myself forgetting what I've listened to. In an attempt to stopper any more information leakage, here's a list of the key ideas behind what I've learned so far.

### [History of Philosophy Without Any Gaps](https://historyofphilosophy.net/)
_Pre-Socratic Era_
1. Gods and mythology are used to explain natural phenomena by Thales, the first Greek philosopher. Also, he thinks everything is made from water.
2. At this point, science and philosophy are one and the same. Anaximander conceptualizes infinity and believes this is the source of everything; Anaximenes says everything is made of air.
3. Counter to the standard religious interpretations fostered by the works of Homer and Hesiod, Xenophanes rejects their anthromorphic interpretation of the gods and posits that they are actually immaterial beings that move the world through thinking.
4. Pythagoreas is deified by his cult, possibly as a reaction to the Christian worship of Jesus. They emphasize numbers and mathematics as the essence of the world; Plato will later adopt this concept of the "stable immaterial". While his cult used music and harmony to describe the soul, Pythagoreas was a reincarnationist, making him one of the first dualists.
5. Heraclitus, who also really liked his pithy riddles, believed that all things -- including the human soul and celestial bodies -- were made of fire. He's famous for two concepts: the unity of opposites and the constance of flux.
6. Parmenides, the father of metaphysics , wrote a work called "On Nature", with two parts. "The Way of Truth" describes "unity in one", describing how change is impossible and that which can be discussed/conceptualized is part of that timeless and constant reality. "The Way of Truth" rejects Heraclitan empericism and argues that the perception is deceitful and one should rely on reason only.
