---
title: "VCT 2022 Day 9: DRX vs. Zeta Division"
collection: Valorant
permalink: /talks/2022-04-23-vct-2022
date: 2022-04-23

---

#ZETAWIN #ZETAWIN #ZETAWIN

## Introduction
Everybody loves a good underdog story, and Zeta Division was the underdog of underdogs for VCT 2022. Prior to this year's Masters Reykjavík, Japan had won a total of 3 _maps_ in the previous three international world majors. Zeta Division is a rebranding of Absolute Jupiter, which had performed even worse than Japan's top seed Crazy Raccoon; in fact, they even pulled out of the 2021 Last Chance Qualifiers, forsaking their final opportuniy to compete on the international stage of VCT 2021. 

The extra months of preparation paid off at this year's Masters Reykjavík, but not immediately. In their first games in groups, Zeta was crushed by Korea's DRX in an overwhelming 0-2 defeat, winning just five rounds total across both maps. Yet their defeat would trigger one of the most unexpected and compelling underdog runs in Valorant history, as Japan knocked out Brazil's Ninjas in Pyjamas and EU's FNATIC in groups, as well as Team Liquid in the lower bracket. Now, we will analyze several of their rounds in their [revenge match against DRX](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UkwJHau5mRI&list=PLMJ9cfx_WDdw-DDa_fk8MBgGnHa_teSwg&index=47), who has just been knocked to lowers by NA's OPTIC.

Led by CS veteran Laz, Zeta has mastered a playstyle of slow plays with controlled risk-taking and aggression, anchored by solid fundamentals and excellent team communication. Their combo-heavy execs, often triggered in the last few seconds of attack side, bait more aggressive enemies into overextending or more passive enemies into using burning utility before Zeta even commits to any site. 

DR, a rebranding of 2021's Vision Strikers, will adopt a default-heavy and highly reactive playstyle. Their passiveness and limited flexibility will lead to their 2-1 loss to Zeta.

I'll be talking about the following rounds:
* Map 3 (Split), Round 16 (Match point)

### Split, Round 16
Zeta is on attack side. 

**Zeta's Comp:**
* TENNN (Raze)
* crow (Skye)
* Dep (Sage)
* Laz (Viper)
* SugarZ3ro (Astra)

**DRX's Comp:**
* Rb (Jett)
* stax (Skye)
* Zest (Sage)
* MaKo (Viper)
* BuZz (Astra)

The round starts with all five Zeta players ready to push from A Lobby. DRX has a standard defense setup: Zest and stax are defending A from A Main and Heaven, respectively; Rb is near Vent, holding Mid with MaKo in Mail; and BuZz is defending B Main.

1. 

